Product tour (#3065)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/administration/back_office/customize_product_tour.md

---
description: Customize product tour scenarios with custom event listeners
edition: lts-update
month_change: true
---

# Customize scenarios with PHP code

You can customize the product tour scenarios with the [`RenderProductTourScenarioEvent`](integrated_help_events.md) event.

> This event is dispatched before rendering a product tour scenario and you can use it to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event is dispatched before a product tour scenario is rendered.
You can use it to:
```

- modify tour steps based on user permissions or roles
- add or remove steps dynamically
- change block content based on runtime conditions
- integrate custom data into tour scenarios

With the following example, a custom onboarding scenario is built.
It starts only when the current user has a pending [notification]([[= user_doc =]]/getting_started/notifications/).

First, define a custom product tour scenario.
It contains a placeholder step with a single block.

``` yaml
ibexa:
    system:

>         default:

Reviewer 2: I think here can also be changed to `admin_group`

            product_tour:
                notifications:
                    type: 'targetable'
                    steps:
                        placeholder_step:
                            step_title_translation_key: 'This is a placeholder step'
                            target: '.ibexa-header-user-menu__notifications-toggler'
                            blocks:
                                - type: text
                                  params:
                                      text_translation_key: 'This is a placeholder block, modified during event subscriber execution'
```

> Then, create a subscriber modifying the scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a subscriber that modifies the scenario.
```

?
